this is the documentation of the CLEAR code:

Section zero, Code:

Here is the code in it current form for just CLEAR.py:


End of code CLEAR.

Section one, Intro:

The CLEAR code is a multi purpose code that is designed to work with most vex v5 robots with minimal code changes. This code is large but is designed to run lightly when not recording. This makes it useable with very big or resource intensive programs. Also, it is compatible with blocks because it uses python and can be copy pasted and put into a switch block to run in blocks. It has five main functions Capture, Log, Encoding, Archiving, Recording. This is why it is named CLEAR the most fundamental parts is the capture and log so we will start with them next.

Section two, Capture:

The most fundamental part is the capture code its capabilities of capturing most of the info the robot gives. Because of the very customizable nature of the code, we will talk mostly about the standard things in the Logging object. The first thing is the controller logging it will log all buttons and stick axis and can do both controllers. It can also monitor the motors as it will give warnings about things like power and temps it does not give simple data about the motors. The last of the logging object is the drivetrain, the drivetrain is a separate object and can monitor a two motor, four motor, or a six motor drivetrain and monitors the same as the motors but as a more unified capture and uses different codes for the logging. Now, this is only the stander logging and in the code you can configure add loops or do one time captures to make it capture everything you want with even the most basic of coding skills.

Section three, Logging:

The logging of the code is part of the capture and is the main object named Log. The log.add() function takes any code in the dictionary "codes" and produces a full string to log into an Sd card the logging always try's the print into the vex terminal but will only log into an Sd card if the card is in when the code starts. Then, the "codes" dictionary can add any code the user wants into the dictionary by a simple calling of a function every startup called log.add_codes(), this makes it a lot easier to adapt to robots with special features, This i why it is so easy to get the capture and logging to get anything that the person configuring the code wants. There is also a remove codes if you want to remove codes you added, also you can change the codes so you can edit what you want it to say or reuse the same key for a different purpose. 

Section four, Archive:

Archiving the logging code is a big part of the code as if it is not it will bog down the Sd card and take up a lot of space after long use or long recording sessions. How it works is by turning the full strings back into the codes that made them. This makes a much smaller file that will not bog down the Sd card nearly as fast. Then, because of the extra space used it can load the full log into memory and can load more lines from log history. Also, you can recall the archived data to make it read better and find problems that happened over multiple runs

Section five, Recording:

Recoding with this code is very different than the code that was originally intended. It works by using the capture of the code, because of the code using a time based movement we need the polling of the capture to be VERY fast in the current config we have it does from 5 Hz to 1000 Hz to do this it uses a cache and after looping the capture 300 times will unload the cache and put it into the Aton file and the log file. Even with this caching it is very resource intensive and will take a while to encode and a lot of battery. We would like to note that when the code is not recording the resources is very small and even when recording it is all the a thread so it will not interfere with the main code however it will affect any other program that is using the Thread() object by slowing it down some.

Section six, Encoding:

The encoding is simple in idea but a pain to make it work as it takes the logs strings and makes them into the function calls that the encode function inputs provide with the button than activates them and turns it into the exact python code needed to run it as fast as possible. This is done by having the function call have 21 variables with the functions that the coder wants to use for the Aton along side with there buttons to call that function.  NOTE It is recommended that the function work as similar as possible to the driver control functions to make the recording more accurate

Section seven, Other:

In the code (See section zero) you will see a lot of "try:", and "except MemoryError:" this is because the size of the files in the Sd card can very easily fill up the memory allocated to the program and lead to a memory error so in this case the file will be read and possess or use the file line by line this makes it still work but will make things slower as it is pulling from the Sd card and not the memory. Also in the Log objects __init__ function you will also see a "except OSError:" the true reason why is unknown to us but it comes of the memory being completely filled before it can get all the library's from python and showing an OS error 27 so it works the same as the memory error so it does not fill up all the memory on startup and force stop the program.

Next, the code it primarily makes objects in the python. The reason for doing this is two big reasons. First is the wanting to learn to use objects to better understand python and use it to are advantage to learn and grow in are skills. the Final reason is for it to be able to be used with other robots in a clean and quick way that looks and feels like the vex code objects and help it for more beginner coders and makes it easy to make it do just about anything within the CLEAR codes goals.

A new addition was made for it to have an ease of updating or changing the CLEAR code is using the import from python to change the class objects and functions without needing the main code for it the only code needed in the main is a import with CLEAR, define the name you want for CLEAR to call it, and tell it what you want to log if the coder wants just the basics covered they can use the start function in the log to do the drivetrain ( up to a six motor) up to six independent motors and six variables. you put them in the input for the respective variables and motor names and it does all the work for you and gives an easy way to do it for most robots especially simple robots.

Another addition to the code is the new function log.logstart() this function is an easy and quick way to get CLEAR to work for the Capture, and Logging for the main code all you need to get it working is call it with your drivetrain motors but up to six of them. There is also an added function that allows to add to the log.logstart() by putting it into the Sd card and executing it using the exec() function. This allows people to use the log.logstart() to add extra motors or variables in the normal function.

An important detail to note is that the main way to use this code in importing it from the Sd card so two lines are needed for it to work calling the import "import CLEAR" and naming the file imported "Clear= CLEAR" is necessary and any code called from CLEAR will need a Clear. at prefixed to it to call it properly. Also to make sure that the main code will work even when there is a bug or error importing or naming and if the Sd card is not there we will need error handling and an "if brain.sdcard.is_inserted():" to first see if the Sd card is in first and then a try and except for an import error and a name error to move on if the file CLEAR is not in the Sd card. 

A cool thing for people without a brain readout is the use of the brain readout in the log.logstart() helping when you cant use the terminal or for finding a repeatable problem faster.

Section eight, Functions and there uses:

Now i will go into detail on how the capture works and its current capabilities.

there are four functions used in the default use of the Capture the log.capture.battery(), log.capture.controller(), log.capture.motor(), log.capture.drivetrain, and log.capture.variable().

First the battery function, There are no inputs for this function as there will always be one battery and the info with always be the same. It captures capacity, voltage, and current. If the capacity of the battery is 50% or lower with give a warning but if its lower than 25 it will give an error log. For the voltage if the voltage is lower than 12 volts it will give a warning and if lower than 11 volts it will give the error log. About the same as the voltage but if the amps is higher than 15 i twill warn and 18 will do the error log.

Next is the controller function, it can take both controllers with a simple input of 1 or 2 and you may input monitor motors to Capture how far the motors moved from the sticks. The function will Capture all the buttons and the stick position for both controllers and will log it all even if they are all pressed, to prevent spam it will only log when it is pressed and released and the sticks if they are different from the last time they where checked.

Then there is the motors they are like the battery as they will only log when there is something of note so it will log the power and the temps, the only input is the motor you want to log.
for the temps if the temps are 50% or more it will log a warning and if over 70% it will log an error. same for power but 11 and 20 respectively. After the value that the motor is checking for reaches normal values again it will log that to make the log more readable and give some more useful data

Next now is the drivetrain this is about the same as the motors but you need to do another '.' as you need to specify if the drivetrain is a two, four, or six motor drivetrain and input the motor names if there right place in the input order. the logging is very similar as the motor function and all the thresholds for the logging are the same but the code used are different and it will show which one is the problem in the drivetrain. Then the read out is a little different as it will not just show the peak use of the data but the total as well making it much more useful for drivetrain related issues.

last is the variables this one is pretty simple and with log the initial value and any changes to the value and logs it the input needed are its name in quotation marks and the value by calling that variable.

Section nine, How to use it:

How to use it in its simplest form is using the log.logstart() but first we need to get the import of the file naming it and error handling incase of the file not exist or cant load right.
the main way to do it is to in a function (name does not matter) put an "if brain.sdcard.is_inserted():" as the first thing then a try: and the error handling for the import error and a name error then in the try add import CLEAR then Clear= CLEAR to get the file on a variable then do the log stuff you want the recommended way is the log.logstart() function but you will need to write it as Clear.log.logstart() because of it being imported. For the inputs for the function there are only two inputs required the right then the left drivetrain motors if you have more than a 2 motor drivetrain then add them in a 123 right left pattern like "right1 left1 right2 left2". Then, if you want any other motors in it add them by adding motor1=, motor2=, etc. to the motor(s) you want to log. The next input is the controller it can do both controllers by saying controller1= and then the name of the main controller then controller2= for the secondary controller. If you want variables you need to use the log.add_logstart() and put in quotation marks add log.capture.variable() then add the name as a string and the value by putting in just the variable. then out of the function add Thead() and put the function in it without the parenthesis. At the end of it should look like this:

if brain.sdcard.is_inserted():
    try:
        import CLEAR
        Clear=CLEAR

        def capture_setup():
	    Clear.log.add_logstart("log.capture.variable('variable', variable)")
            Clear.log.logstart(Right1, left1, Right2, left2, Right3, left3, motor1=enter up to six motors)
	    # NOTE: for the stuff that can take up to six of things it should go like motor1=x motor2=y etc. NOT: motor1=(x, y, etc.)
	    # NOTE2: There are a few extra things you can config for changing if you want to print to the brain screen or not index the log history. Syntax: brainscreen=True, indexhistory=False.
        Thread(capture_setup)

All of that can use the logging, capture, and the archive for the code to use the Recording and encoding we need another function in the main code. The way to do this is very simple there are two ways to do it record and then encode or record and encode on two separate inputs we recommend the first option. All you need to do is in a function (again name does not matter) is the same if and error handling but don't import as you do need the previous code to be there for the recording and encoding to work. add the Clear.log.recording.start() then add the name of the recording in the input then after what you want in a recording is done add the Clear.log.record.stop() and also add the name of the recording (you may add the stop as a toggle or as a separate function). After you stopped the recording then you will put in Clear.log.recording.encode() now in the inputs you add the right side drive function then the left then any function to need from the recording as its function then its stop function then its button (the max you can add is six) and it should look like this with some controller print to show if it is recording and when its done:

def record():
            global recording_state
            if recording_state == 0:
                Clear.log.recording.start("enter name of file you want here")
                controller_1.screen.clear_line(3)
                controller_1.screen.set_cursor(3,1)
                controller_1.screen.print("recording.")
                recording_state=1
            elif recording_state == 1:
                Clear.log.recording.stop("Right")
                controller_1.screen.clear_line(3)
                controller_1.screen.set_cursor(3,1)
                controller_1.screen.print("Stopped.")
                Clear.log.recording.encode("enter name of file you want here", enter function for right side drive, enter function for left side drive, "enter other functions up to six here" enter start of function, enter stop for function here if there is no stop enter none, "enter button you want for other function")
                controller_1.screen.clear_line(3)
                controller_1.screen.set_cursor(3,1)
                controller_1.screen.print("Encoded.")
                recording_state=0

	#callback to run function if button pressed
        controller_1.buttonRight.pressed(record)
	
	# end of recording part of code

        controller_1.buttonUp.pressed(recallhistory)

        def aton():
            Clear.log.recording.run("Right")

        def driver():
            pass
        
        comp=Competition(driver, aton)
    except ImportError:
        print("CLEAR.py not found. Make sure it is in the sdcard and try again.")
    except AttributeError:
        print("CLEAR.py not found. Make sure it is in the sdcard and try again.")

Section ten, Performance:

During the state competition when we where talking about the logging one of the judges asked about its performance we unfortunately could not fully answer this question other than its fairly light. Now we can say with full confidence that the software is light weight and will minimally impact the performance of the robot when logging.

How we test for the performance is seeing how much time it takes to complete it because we can't see the utilization of the CPU in the brain. Next, the setup we used is a logging of a six motor drivetrain three other motors and two variables and one controller to test what the performance its for a basic robot we would make is. For the full loop which is logging all the things 200 times over the time when logging is about 40250 msec it varies a lot about +- 50 msec now every loop in the main loop has a 200msec wait to make it work at about 5 Hz so we spend about 250msec busy so in percent that's about 0.62% of the time busy and on top of that it uses the Thread function so it runs in the background and will never affect the true performance of the main program and will run its things when the brain is idle and on top of all of that we can't even feel any difference in lag for inputs. So this lead us to believe that it is indistinguishable than a brain without it. However this is not for recording witch is a different Hz and tries to use the max usage to get the best accuracy for the recording. Even then it still is in a Thread so it will not affect the main thread but if there is any other Thread it will not work until after the recording is done.












